docs: Add ingest data landing page (#31468)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/ingest-data/_index.md

---

> title: "Ingest data"

Author: https://preview.materialize.com/materialize/31468/ingest-data/

---

> title: "Ingesting data"

Author: https://preview.materialize.com/materialize/31468/ingest-data/

- [MySQL](/ingest-data/mysql/)
- [SQL Server](/ingest-data/cdc-sql-server/)
- [CockroachDB](/ingest-data/cdc-cockroachdb/)
{{</ linkbox >}}
{{< linkbox title="Message Brokers" >}}
- [Kafka](/ingest-data/kafka/)
- [Redpanda](/sql/create-source/kafka)
- [Other message brokers](/integrations/#message-brokers)
{{</ linkbox >}}
{{< linkbox title="Webhooks" >}}
- [Amazon EventBridge](/ingest-data/webhooks/amazon-eventbridge/)
- [Segment](/ingest-data/webhooks/segment/)
- [Other webhooks](/sql/create-source/webhook)
{{</ linkbox >}}
{{</ multilinkbox >}}

## Sources and clusters

Materialize ingests data from external systems using
[sources](/concepts/sources/). For the sources, you need to associate a
[cluster](/concepts/clusters/) to provide the compute resources needed to ingest
data.

{{% tip %}}

- If possible, dedicate a cluster just for sources.

- When you create a new source, Materialize performs a one-time [snapshotting
  operation](#snapshotting) to initially populate the source in Materialize.
  Snapshotting is a resource-intensive operation that can require a significant
  amount of CPU and memory. Consider using a larger cluster size during

>   snapshotting. Once the snapshotting operation is complete, you can downsize

Author: For future verifications: 

- It may not be the case for certain sources.
- Maybe after a certain size, it might not buy as much improvement.
- For  upsert sources, emphasize this a bit more + dedicated cluster for upsert sources (as in separate these sources from other sources)

Reviewer: > amount of CPU and memory.

This is really only true for upsert sources. OLTP sources do not have elevated memory usage. A larger cluster can make it go faster but its not strictly necessary. 

The dedicated cluster for sources is a good idea! What if we have that as it's own tip and then move the rest to something more upsert specific?

Author: 👍 Will add a patch for the upsert-specific stuff.

Author: Added  patch https://github.com/MaterializeInc/materialize/pull/31468/commits/2acdb6bc2dc5064ea9b1de89329d371aa3a49a64

  the cluster to align with the steady-state ingestion.

- See also [Best practices](#best-practices).

{{% /tip %}}

## Snapshotting

Snapshotting refers to the initial population of a source in Materialize. When
you create a new source, Materialize takes a snapshot of the data from the
upstream (i.e., external) system at a given offset and loads it into
Materialize.

For the offset, Materialize chooses the latest available offset. For the
available offset, Materialize uses:

- Log Sequence Number (LSN) for PostgreSQL sources.

- The number of transactions committed across all servers in the cluster for
  MySQL sources.

- Kafka message offset for Kafka sources.

Materialize captures/commits a snapshot of all historical data up to that point.
Snapshot is persisted in the storage layer, and all records in this initial load

> have the same ingestion timestamp.

Author: 👍 I thought Nikhil had said # of txns, but I might have misunderstood him.

> have the same ingestion timestamp.

Reviewer 2: It's documented here: https://materialize.com/docs/sql/create-source/mysql/#monitoring-source-progress

### Duration

The snapshotting operation duration depends on the snapshot dataset size and the
size of the Materialize cluster that is hosting the source. For very large
sources that contain hundreds of GB of data, it can take up to an hour or even
several hours to complete.

{{% tip %}}

- If possible, schedule creating new sources during off-peak hours to mitigate
  the impact of snapshotting on both the upstream system and the Materialize

>   cluster.

Author: Need to verify about scheduling (namely, if there are exceptions that can be made (if necessary) to the rule depending on the source type)

Reviewer 2: This is a weird one, and again only applies to production environments. Even then, it should be safe to _e.g._ add a new _subsource_ to a source during peak hours.

- Consider using a larger cluster size during snapshotting. Once the
  snapshottingis complete, you can downsize the cluster to align with the volume
  of changes being replicated from your upstream in steady-state.

- See also [Best practices](#best-practices).

{{% /tip %}}

> If you create your source from the Materialize Console, the overview page for

Reviewer 2: > If you create your source from the Materialize Console, the overview page for the source displays the snapshotting progress.

For shared context, this isn't correct. The Console will always display snapshotting progress, regardless of what interface you used to create the source.

> The snapshotting operation duration depends on the snapshot dataset size and the
> size of the Materialize cluster that is hosting the source. For very large
> sources that contain hundreds of GB of data, it can take up to an hour or even
> several hours to complete.
> 
> {{% tip %}}
> 
> - If possible, schedule creating new sources during off-peak hours to mitigate
>   the impact of snapshotting on both the upstream system and the Materialize
>   cluster.
> 
> - Consider using a larger cluster size during snapshotting. Once the
>   snapshottingis complete, you can downsize the cluster to align with the volume
>   of changes being replicated from your upstream in steady-state.
> 
> - See also [Best practices](#best-practices).
> 
> {{% /tip %}}
> 
> If you create your source from the Materialize Console, the overview page for
> the source displays the snapshotting progress. Alternatively, you can run a
> query to monitor its progress. See [Monitoring the snapshotting progress](/ingest-data/monitoring-data-ingestion/#monitoring-the-snapshotting-progress).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The duration of the snapshotting operation depends on the volume of data in the
initial snapshot and the size of the cluster the source is hosted in. To reduce
the operational burden of snapshotting on the upstream system and guarantee
you're only bringing in the volume of data you effectively need in Materialize,
we recommend:

- If possible, running source creation operations during **off-peak hours** to
  minimize operational risk in both the upstream system and Materialize.
  
- **Limiting the volume of data** that is synced into Materialize on source
  creation. This will help speed up snapshotting, as well as make data
  exploration more lightweight. See [Limit the volume of data](#limit-the-volume-of-data)
  for best practices.

- **Overprovisioning the ingestion cluster** for snapshotting, then
  right-sizing once the snapshot is complete and you have a better grasp on the
  resource needs of your source(s) in steady-state. See [Limit the volume of
  data](#use-a-larger-cluster-for-snapshotting) for best practices.
```

Reviewer 2: Not a big fan of jamming a lot of text into a tip annotation — it feels like a sign that we need to improve how the text is organized.

Reviewer 2: Also, I think we should already be surfacing best practices like limiting data under this section, so it's less likely they'll be missed.

> ### CPU and memory utilization
> 
> Snapshotting may require more compute resources from the Materialize cluster
> than steady-state. If there are signs of resource exhaustion (that is, the
> cluster restarts because it ran out of memory), resize the cluster.
> 
> {{% tip %}}
> Consider using a larger cluster size during snapshotting. Once the snapshotting
> operation is complete, you can downsize your source cluster to align with the
> volume of changes being replicated from your upstream in steady-state.
> {{% /tip %}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Monitoring progress

While snapshotting is taking place, you can monitor the progress of the
operation in the **overview page** for the source in the [Materialize Console]
(https://console.materialize.com/). Alternatively, you can manually keep track
of using information from the system catalog. See [Monitoring the snapshotting
progress](/ingest-data/monitoring-data-ingestion/#monitoring-the-snapshotting-progress)
for guidance.

It's also important to **monitor CPU and memory utilization** for the cluster
hosting the source during snapshotting. If there are signs of resource
exhaustion, you may need to [resize the cluster](#use-a-larger-cluster-for-snapshotting).
```

### Queries during snapshotting

> While a source is snapshotting, the source (and the associated subsources)
> cannot serve queries. That is, queries issued to the snapshotting source (and
> its subsources) will return after the snapshotting completes (unless the user
> breaks out of the query). If the user does not break out of the query, the
> returned query results will reflect the data from the snapshot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the initial snapshot is persisted atomically, you are **not able to
query the source until snapshotting is complete**. This means that queries
issued against (sub)sources undergoing snapshotting will hang until the
operation completes. Once the initial snapshot has been ingested, you can start
querying your (sub)source and Materialize will continue ingesting any new data
as it arrives, in real time.
```

> ## Running/steady-state
> 
> Once snapshotting completes, Materialize transitions to Running state. During
> this state, Materialize continually ingests changes from the upstream system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Will keep to just have a parent section to the next child section about querying in steady state

### Queries during steady-state

Although Materialize is continually ingesting changes from the upstream system,
depending on the volume of the upstream changes, Materialize may lag behind the
upstream system. If the lag is significant, queries may block until Materialize
has caught up sufficiently with the upstream system when using the default

> [isolation level](/get-started/isolation-level/) of [strict

Author: FYI -- I'm going to bubble up  the isolation + arrangements pages (i.e., make an architecture section in the docs) sometime next week.

serializability](/get-started/isolation-level/#strict-serializable).

In the Materialize Console, you can see a source's data freshness from the
**Data Explorer** screen. Alternatively, you can run a query to monitor the lag.

> See [Monitoring the snapshotting progress](/ingest-data/monitoring-data-ingestion).

Author: https://github.com/MaterializeInc/materialize/pull/31468/files#diff-6362bf8e3358425c215c07f53441a0714f5361817d6384bedc83907561072a53R116

> ## Rehydration

Reviewer 2: We no longer use the term "rehydration", only "hydration".

Author: As for hydration vs rehydration ... I did ask about that since you had mentioned it to me in an earlier pr.  There seemed to be some ambiguity as to how we use the terms.

Author: I could go with Hydration and in that first sentence, add "(sometimes referred to as rehydration)."

Reviewer 2: > (sometimes referred to as rehydration).

We should have a single term for user-facing documentation (or anything), and we've previously agreed that it should be simply _hydration_. Sources are either snapshotting (from the external system) or hydrating (from storage), compute objects just hydrate. No need to differentiate and potentially confuse users, since this is just our internal lingo coming through.

reading data from the storage layer; rehydration does not require reading data
from the upstream system.

{{% tip %}}

If possible, use a dedicated cluster just for sources. That is, avoid
using the same cluster for sources and other objects, such as sinks, etc. See [Best practices](#best-practices) for more details.

{{% /tip %}}

### Process

During rehydration, data from the storage layer is read to reconstruct the
in-memory state of the object. As part of the rehydration process:

- Internal data structures are re-created.

- Various processes are re-initiated. These processes may also require
  re-reading of their in-memory state.

### Duration

For a source, the duration of its rehydration depends on the type and the size
of the source; e.g., large `UPSERT` sources can take hours to complete.

### Queries during rehydration

During rehydration, queries usually block until the process has been completed.

## Best practices

#### Scheduling

If possible, schedule creating new sources during off-peak hours to mitigate the
impact of snapshotting on both the upstream system and the Materialize cluster.

#### Dedicate a cluster for the sources

> If possible, dedicate a cluster just for sources. That is, avoid using the same

Author: for future: even within the umbrella of dedicated source clusters, further division with dedicated upsert source clusters.

Reviewer: > So, you have a source cluster and it's sized for current steady state. What is the happy route for adding a new source to that cluster.

This is why I think we should think about special casing upsert sources. We don't strictly need to scale up clusters with OLTP sources to add a new subsource. And if you do want to scale up it's very fast. 

Though, once 0dt source rescaling lands some of this problem may just go away.
